# Exercise on Variable Scopes (Visibility Ranges) within Methods and Classes

Please *do not modify*:

* The method names
* The number and type of parameters for the methods
* The return type of the methods

## PHASE 1

1. Analyze the source file `Scopes.java`.
2. Before compiling and running the program, reflect on the behavior of the class methods and try to predict the output of each print statement. Write down your predicted results on a piece of paper.

## PHASE 2

1. Compile the program.
   * NOTE: The `TestScopesMain` class uses (or depends on) the `Scopes` class. 
     Therefore, when compiling `TestScopesMain`, the compiler checks that the `Scopes` class is used correctly.
     For this purpose, the compiler must check the bytecode of `Scopes`.
   * NOTE: Since there are two source files,
     the `javac` compiler should be conceptually invoked twice,
     once for each file (ALTERNATIVE 1).
   * Alternatively,
     you can invoke `javac` by passing both files as parameters (ALTERNATIVE 2),
     or use the wildcard `*` followed by the file extension (i.e., `*.java`) to compile all files in one go (ALTERNATIVE 3).
   * Try compiling using all three described methods.
     Between compilations, delete the `.class` files generated by the compiler.
   * NOTE: Recent versions of `javac` can automatically resolve dependencies in a source file if both the source and its dependencies are in the same folder where `javac` is executed.
     In this specific case, it might be enough to directly compile `TestScopesMain` to succeed (and also obtain the `.class` file generated from the compilation of `Scopes.java`). However, this automatic resolution of dependencies does NOT work in general. 
     Try compiling from the parent folder to verify this (be sure to delete any `.class` files previously generated), or compile with the `-sourcepath ..` option.
2. Run the program and compare its output with what was predicted in step (2):
   if the output is different, try to understand why (contact the instructor or tutor if you have doubts).
